Ready for AI coding on steroids today
we're showcasing Auto Claude where you
can get 10 times the work done on your
projects with the planning and the
quality coding and testing that you
should demand from your AI coding system.
Now Auto Claude is designed to
work for all skill levels from
Vibe coders without any coding
experience to senior developers.
Hi, my name is Andre Mi-kal-sen
and I use AI to code production
level applications every day.
And today I'm showcasing Auto
Claude, a open source and free
project for using your claude code
subscription to get more work done.
So when you're opening Auto Claude
and want to connect it to a existing
project or create a new one, you just
come to the top left corner here,
add project open existing folder.
When you open it, it gonna prompt
you to initialize Auto Claude.
That's gonna create a.auto Claude folder.
Inside your project, you just
initialize and then the project
is ready for you to use.
And we're gonna start with showcasing
the Kanban board here, which is
the system for long running agents
that just runs in the background.
Now how it works is
that you start engaging.
The system by just creating a task.
And we're gonna start with one simple
task where I found a little bug here
in the actual inside of Auto Claude,
where we have a double cross here.
So we're just gonna take a screenshot
of that and just paste it into the
description and we see it gets added
as a reference image to the task.
And we're just gonna say
here and I'll use dictation.
Please see the image in
terms of the double cross for
closing out the project files.
That's overlapping with the model
for closing the create task modal.
So you can see now when we have
some options here for selecting
the model and the thinking level.
If you want more control, if you
don't want any, do any manual things.
We have tried to keep
things at a good level.
We are gonna do a little bit of a
work here where the system itself
figures out what model and what
thinking level it's gonna use.
But as you can see now, we also have
this section for requiring a human review
before coding if you want to work on more
complex tasks where you want more control,
but the system will work autonomously.
And also we can drag and drop hard
project files here into the description.
Right now it's not working correctly.
So we're gonna create a second
task for showcasing how the system
actually identifies how a task is
either simple or it's a medium sized
task, or it's a very complex task.
So you can see now it's
written the task title itself.
We don't have to do that if
we don't want, and we can now.
Just start this task and it'll go into
a planning phase where it starts to
identify all the context it needs.
It finds out what it needs to
create as subtasks, and also the
complexity level of the task itself.
So while that has started, we
can start to see some logs.
We will also create a new
task care for the issue that
we can't drag and drop files.
When using the project files
view, we cannot drag and drop
the file into the description.
There's only the section for reference
files further down in the task section,
but I think we should just mention
below the description that the user
can both paste screenshots and drag
and drop files from the project.
File Explorer.
So now in many cases, this is a
description that like we could give
a lot more context into the task in
order for it to be a much better task.
And the system we're trying
to, like Auto Claude, is gonna
try and identify everything and
also have a self review process.
So it's gonna create a plan.
We'll go here and see
the logs have started.
You can see now it's in planning
phase and it has 27 entries, and if
you want to review and understand
what the AI is actually doing, you
can see the logs here with all the
tools, all the writings and everything.
It has identified here we can
see the complexity level for the
fixing overlapping close buttons.
It has identified as a simple task
with a confidence of 90%, and that
dictates how everything is gonna work.
It's just gonna go and have a
quick spec and create a simple
test for fixing or checking that
it's actually fixed once it's done.
So it's not gonna produce
a lot of unnecessary tests.
A lot of different coding, just so
it saves upon the context itself
here, so we don't have to pay more
for a simple task integration.
And if you're wondering, we are working on
the same files here and the sales systems,
but how Auto Claude is working is that if
we have a full overview over all the work
trees that are for this project itself.
So that means a work tree is basically
a sandbox or an environment where.
The coding is happening in one place,
and it won't touch any of the other
files, so you can safely work on the
same as, for instance, in this case,
we're working on the same files on two
different tasks, and then if you're
a developer, you're gonna be like,
Hey, we're gonna have merge conflicts.
But inside Auto Claude we have this
merge conflict AI layer, which is doing
a little bit of programmatic things,
but also having an AI that does the
refactoring and handling merge conflicts.
If there's.
In these two tasks.
So we're gonna see, once it's done,
we're gonna see that it's actually
a merge conflict, and we can just
quickly, with one button solve it
and everything gets done correctly.
So as this is working, you can
already see that the simple task is
already going over to an AI review.
So the AI is gonna re review its own
work, and that's the power of Auto
Claude, that you can just have this
running in the background and it's only
ready for you once the AI has deemed
it ready for you to actually test and
utilize straight into the project.
So we also have this agents terminal,
and this is a place where you can
spawn up to 12 terminals and easily
invoke Claude in all of the instances.
And there's also some smart
functionalities we're working on
because myself, I like to have
this type of terminal overview that
I can name, rename terminals to
what they're, what they are about.
So I can.
Hold my my thoughts when I navigate
around, especially when you start
to get more terminals, like when you
start to get six and nine and even 12.
Depends how much like
multitasking you want to do.
But for me when doing like tasks,
I want to rename the terminals.
And also there's a smart functionality
here in terms of that you can add
tasks just straight from the terminal
view and you can also reference them.
Basically like this, and it'll rename
the terminal into the task description,
and it'll also give the description
straight into the claude code terminal.
So you quickly can start new tasks
if you have planned out things, but
want to not utilize the AI system
with everything happening in the
background, you want to be more hands on.
This is the system that
allows you to do that.
We also have some session restoring
so that you can close down the
application and spawn it up again,
it will save the session so you
can continue if anything happens.
And we'll continue to iterate on this
based upon how many people use the
agent terminals in their day-to-day.
We also have insights, which is basically.
a chat with history, which is
a Claude called instance that
have access to your project and
you can spawn chat history here.
Myself, I like to use
this for more like just.
Investigating things that I'm
wondering about, maybe having a
sparring partner, something like that.
It's nice to have.
And also the roadmap functionality is
a very good thing, for you actually
getting good traction with your project.
So here you can see we have different
views for creating a roadmap, and we
are also gonna be integrating third
party software like canny in order to
get feedback from users, from their
softwares, and just incorporating it
straight into the Auto Claude system.
So here you can see the AI has tried
to identify your target audience, and
then it's breaking down features that
you should implement into your project.
This is just gonna become better and
better as the more you use it because
Auto Claude has its own memory layer.
So we can go here to context and the first
thing you'll see is the project index.
So it's basically what we can
programmatically figure out
what the project is about.
It has identified, we are in the Auto
Claude repo here and it is identified
the electron front end and the python
backend with the API routes and the
dependencies, just so that things like
this, the actual project infrastructure,
is quickly given as context to the user.
And something we're working very
heavily on is the memory system.
It's a, graph memory system also
incorporated with Semantic Rag.
If you don't know what that
means, it's basically that we
have different methods for letting
the AI know about your project.
And as you're doing and you're working
with tasks here, the more you use
it, the smarter the system becomes.
And for people who has a
little bit more knowledge about
context, windows and token usage.
The more you use Auto Claude, the
smarter it becomes at actually retrieving
context at a smaller token usage.
So it'll become cheaper to actually
use Auto Claude over claude
code when you use it over time.
So the roadmap functionality, definitely
something to check out and see what
it, suggests that you should do
for your project, but also we have
the ideation tab here where we just
can get some quick tasks if you are
not sure about what you should do.
And also if you have something like,
I just want to see, for instance,
security and code improvements at a
general step, you can generate that.
And Auto Claude will figure out based
upon your project, investigate where,
how do we have some security issues?
We also have performance, so we can do
performance enhancement, but also like
code improvements is generally, it's
trying to locate like low hanging fruits
and quick wins where we can quickly
incorporate something that has good
value for the users of the project.
So we'll go, just go back here and see.
You can see now that the two tasks that
we have, done is done with AI review.
We can see here it hasn't identified
actually that there is any
merge conflicts ready for this.
Let's just recheck it.
These tasks, you can go in and see
the subtasks, what it has done.
You can also check the full
logs in terms of what it did for
validation, what it did for coding.
So you have full overview
over what the AI system has
actually done for each of these.
We're just gonna let this run
because it finds five different
things with it each category.
And while we do that, we'll
talk about the change log
functionality inside Auto Claude.
And it's something I really like.
It has the possibility to create change
logs, and also it's integrated with
GitHub, so you can create a change
log based upon either all the tasks
you have done inside Auto Claude, but
what we use most is the GIT history.
Because I like to work with both
the Task Kanban board, but also
like I showcased more manually.
So I'm manually doing commits to GitHub
and I'm manually doing work with ai.
And that makes it so that when you
go into GI History here, you can
for instance, say since last version
and we are version, 2.1 right now.
And it will actually load all the commits
that's happening since that version.
And you can just continue.
And we will say 2.0 version, and
this is a GitHub release and we want
some emojis, and it's just like that.
It's gonna generate a change log.
And it's quite quick.
we don't use Opus for this
functionality right now.
And you'll see it identifies the
new features, improvements, bug
fixes, and also all the changes.
So we can quickly just save
this to the change log.
And once it does that, we can
just click create release, and
that goes straight up until Gith.
So that's a very fast way to get
good change logs and do GitHub
releases if you want, something
like that for your project.
I do recommend using the change
log for actually keeping track of
what's happening inside your project
just so you have control over time.
So we talked about the context as well.
It's something we really are
working hard on and there's
integrations with GitHub issues.
So GitHub issues will come straight into
Auto Claude and you can create tasks and
it can start to identify what's wrong and
fix it automatically in the background.
There's a lot of other
things that's coming.
There's a lot of good
things in the settings.
For instance, if you are a very
heavy power user like me you can
utilize the integrations tab.
Here we have multiple Claude
accounts because what.
Auto Claude actually allows you to do
is to create a lot of tasks and just run
them in the background, so you get a lot
of features done quickly, but that also
implies that you're getting things done.
Not only quicker, but for instance, I
get a lot of tasks done while I sleep.
So basically all my claude
code usage has doubled.
So I need two claude code max
plans and we have created a system
that you can incorporate both of
them, into the Auto Claude system
and easily swap between them.
And we will incorporate some type of like
auto switching so it knows about what
the rate limits for one account and it
swaps when you need to swap basically
so now we can go ahead and just
get the task into our project.
We open the task, which is ready now
for human review, and we just press
stage changes and that makes it so
that if there's any merge conflicts,
it's gonna solve that by itself.
And we can go here into the IDE
now and we see that the changes
have come into our repo and we can
repeat, uh, review them if we want.
And we now also can just go into
the, um, you can see here the
changes staged successfully.
So if there is any merge conflicts, and
this is a very good, which I appreciate,
which is the merge conflict AI layer
that fixes merge conflicts automatically
so you can work on a lot of tasks and
also work manually in other branches.
The system will follow along as
files evolve, but we can now go
and see if this is successful.
This was the fixed overlapping
buttons and that was that.
If we go here and we see
it, browse the uh files.
You can see now the task was successful,
it implemented it, and we can go ahead
and merge this with our main branch.
So what's coming next?
We have a great focus on the framework
itself that runs behind the hood.
We also have the Python CLI that you
can utilize if you don't want to use
the frontend electron application.
Now we're also working on incorporating
the BMAD method for context
engineering, AI coding validation.
And we're just gonna put it on steroids
by putting it inside Auto Claude where
we get like the long running agents, QA,
looping, rag memory system, and much more.
We also welcome everybody to
our free Discord community.
The link is in the description to talk
about features, bugs, and you can also
network with like-minded AI enthusiasts,
developers, entrepreneurs, marketers.
There's a lot of people there,
and then generally a nice
community to feel at home.
So stay tuned for big
productivity updates.
So I just wanted to showcase
how you can install Auto Cloud.
If you're wondering about how to do
that, we have a very descriptive,
quick install description if
you want to follow along that.
If not, here's how you do it quickly.
You download the zip file here on GitHub,
and the link is down in the description.
Then you go and.
You create either a new folder or you
unzip the auto cloud folder, which is, uh,
which you downloaded, and you just go to
your favorite IDE here we use in Cursor
just because it's, uh, simple to use
with ai, especially if you're a beginner.
And we just open up the
folder that we just unzipped.
Now we have the Auto Cloud project open
here, and the first thing you're gonna do.
Is that if you, is that, if you
haven't installed the uh, node, JJS,
Python and Docker desktop, just follow
the instructions or just, what you
also can do is basically just copy
and paste this into something like.
Cursor and just say, help me install this.
And it will help you do that,
uh, uh, based upon your system.
And that's actually a very quick
way for you to get started.
Once everything is installed,
you're just gonna do the first
step here, which is to do these
commands inside the terminal here.
So if you don't have uv, you can basically
just tell Opus to, or, or the agent
you have inside Cursor or any other, a
AI agent to just help me use, uh, uv,
which is basically just for managing
the packages here in a environment.
Or you can use this, you can
try this also, if you're, um.
If the first command here is failing,
that will basically spin up a, uh, virtual
environment and install everything.
So now it's ready to be used.
The next step is to actually start
the memory layer, and here we need
Docker compose in order to do that.
So you will just go and do this
command in its own database.
Uh, it'll create the database and spin up
what's necessary for the memory to work.
And the last thing is to actually just
install and launch the application.
So we are gonna do p and PM
install that installs everything,
and then just command, copy this
command once it's done here.
So now it'll just build everything
and it'll start the application as
soon as it's done, and it's taking
quite a short amount of time.
Now we can see we're getting a
new application up and going here.
So there you have it.
It's up and going.
And if you have any questions, I highly
suggest you join our Discord community.
I will be very interactive
there in terms of helping you
if you have any issues or bugs.
And if you have liked the video,
be sure to subscribe and like it.
And.
Help other people find this amazing
system that we are working on so we can
get going with our projects at lightning
speed while keep, keep still keeping that
quality that we want from our AI coding.